# PODNAME: Neo4j::Driver::Deprecations
# ABSTRACT: Explains features that have been deprecated, but not yet removed

=encoding utf8

=head1 OVERVIEW

Deprecated features are removed from the pod documentation of
the individual modules in this distribution in an attempt to
keep those short and clear. This document describes all features
that are deprecated, but still working for completeness' sake,
briefly explains the reason for their deprecation, and suggests
alternatives where possible.

The intention is that most deprecated features will be removed with
the next major update to L<Neo4j::Driver>. There is no schedule for
the release of that update S<(version 1.00),> but there is a decent
chance that it will happen in the year 2021.

=head1 Neo4j::Driver

=head2 close()

I<Deprecated in version 0.14 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.02 as an experimental feature.>

 $driver->close;  # no-op

All resources opened by this driver are closed automatically once
they are no longer required. Explicit calls to C<close()> are neither
required nor useful.

=head2 Mutable auth credentials

I<Deprecated in version 0.15 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.01 as an experimental feature.>

 $session1 = $driver->basic_auth('user1', 'password')->session;
 $session2 = $driver->basic_auth('user2', 'password')->session;

Early versions allowed modifying the driver object after session
creation. This is not very useful in practice. The official Neo4j
drivers are explicitly designed to be immutable.

=head2 Suppress exceptions

I<Deprecated in version 0.14 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.01 as an experimental feature.>

 $driver = Neo4j::Driver->new;
 $driver->{die_on_error} = 0;
 $result = $driver->session->run('...');

The default value of the C<die_on_error> attribute is C<1>. Setting
this to C<0> causes the driver to no longer die on I<server> errors.

This is much less useful than it sounds. Not only is the
L<Result|Neo4j::Driver::Result> structure not
well-defined for such situations, but also the internal state of the
L<Transaction|Neo4j::Driver::Transaction> object may be corrupted.
For example, when a minor server error occurs on the first request
(which would normally establish the connection), the expected
C<Location> header may be missing from the error message and the
transaction may therefore be marked as closed, even though it still
is open. The next request would then fail anyway, but with a
misleading error message.

Additionally, I<client> errors (such as trying to call C<single()> on
a result with multiple result records) have always caused the driver
to die in spite of C<die_on_error = 0>.

Such inconsistent behaviour makes bugs harder to find and has no
clear advantages. It is not present in the official drivers.

To suppress errors, wrap your calls in
L<< C<try>/C<catch> blocks|perlsyn/"Try Catch Exception Handling" >>:

 use Feature::Compat::Try;
 my $result;
 try {
   $result = $session->run('MATCH (n:Test) RETURN m');
   $result->has_next;  # Wait for statement execution
 }
 catch ($e) { warn "Got a Neo4j error: $e" }

=head1 Neo4j::Driver::Record

=head2 Cypher type system

I<Direct access deprecated in version 0.13 and currently
planned to be removed in 1.00. Originally added in 0.01.>

 $result = $session->run('MATCH (n:Person) RETURN (n)');
 foreach my $node ( map { $_->get } $result->list ) {
   my $properties = $node;
   say $properties->{birthday};
 }

Early versions of this driver returned nodes and relationships as
unblessed hash references of their properties. Neo4j paths were
returned as unblessed array references. This was a bug because
this driver's goal always was to implement the Neo4j Driver API,
which doesn't work this way. This bug made it impossible to
distinguish between structural types and simple maps / lists.
It also made it difficult to access metadata. See GitHub issues
L<#2|https://github.com/johannessen/neo4j-driver-perl/issues/2> and L<#8|https://github.com/johannessen/neo4j-driver-perl/issues/8>.

Proper blessed types for L<nodes|Neo4j::Driver::Type::Node>,
L<relationships|Neo4j::Driver::Type::Relationship> and
L<paths|Neo4j::Driver::Type::Path> were added in S<version 0.13,>
and directly accessing their elements and properties using
C<< ->[] >> or C<< ->{} >> was deprecated at the same time.
A deprecation warning was added in version 0.18.
The current plan is to remove direct access in version 1.00.

To obtain a hash reference of all properties of a
L<node|Neo4j::Types::Node/"properties"> or
L<relationship|Neo4j::Types::Relationship/"properties">,
use the C<properties()> method:

 $result = $session->run('MATCH (n) RETURN (n)');
 foreach my $node ( map { $_->get } $result->list ) {
   my $properties = $node->properties;
   say $properties->{birthday};
 }

To obtain all nodes and relationships in a path as an alternating
array, use the L<< C<elements()>|Neo4j::Types::Path/"elements" >>
method:

 $result = $session->run('MATCH p=(:Person)-[]->() RETURN (p)');
 foreach my $path ( map { $_->get } $result->list ) {
   my $array = [ $path->elements ];
   ...
 }

=head2 get_bool()

I<Deprecated in version 0.07 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.02 as an experimental feature.>

 $bool  = $session->run('RETURN false')->single->get_bool;
 $ref   = ref $bool;        # ''
 $undef = ! defined $bool;  # 1

Get a boolean value from this record. Behaves exactly like
L<C<get()>|Neo4j::Driver::Record/"get">, except that non-truthy
boolean values are returned as C<undef>.

In Perl, which doesn't have a native boolean type, JSON booleans are
represented as a blessed scalar that uses L<overload> to evaluate
truthy or non-truthy as appropriate in Perl expressions. This almost
always works perfectly fine. However, some conditions may not expect
a non-truthy value to be blessed, which can result in wrong
interpretation of query results. The C<get_bool()> method was meant
to ensure boolean results would evaluate correctly in such cases.

If you do need an unblessed Perl scalar to express a boolean value,
simply use C<!!> to force evaluation in a boolean context.

 $val  = $session->run('RETURN false')->single->get;
 $ref  = ref $val;  # 'JSON::PP::Boolean'
 $bool = !! $val;

=head2 Raw meta data access

I<Deprecated in version 0.18 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.01 as an experimental feature.>

 $meta = $record->{meta};

Allows accessing the entity meta data that some versions of
the Neo4j server provide. This meta data is not available
reliably due to a known bug in the Neo4j server
(L<#12306|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12306>).
If it I<is> available, it can since S<version 0.13> be
accessed via object methods. This raw access shouldn't be
needed anymore and should no longer be relied upon.

=head2 stats()

I<Deprecated in version 0.07 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.02 as an experimental feature.>

Shortcut for L<"stats()" in Neo4j::Driver::Result|/"stats()1">
(only for records obtained via L<Neo4j::Driver::Result/"single">).

=head2 Virtual columns

I<Deprecated in version 0.18 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.01 as an experimental feature.>

 $size = $record->{column_keys}->count;
 $record->{column_keys}->add('new_field_key');

Access to the internal C<{column_keys}> data structure allows
adding new 'virtual' columns to the record's field key / index
resolution used by the C<get()> method. The virtual columns
can then be accessed just like regular columns.

Rather than manipulating the driver's Neo4j statement result,
users should make an in-memory copy of the results in a data
structure under their own control.

=head1 Neo4j::Driver::Result

=head2 stats()

I<Deprecated in version 0.07 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.02 as an experimental feature.>

 $tx = $session->begin_transaction;
 $tx->{return_stats} = 1;
 $stats = $tx->run('...')->stats;

Return a hash ref. The hash ref contains query statistics if these
were requested in advance. The hash ref may or may not be blessed.

In the Neo4j Driver API, query statistics are available from the
L<Neo4j::Driver::ResultSummary> instead, which is obtained using
L<C<summary()>|Neo4j::Driver::Result/"summary">.

 $stats = $session->run('...')->summary->counters;

=head1 Neo4j::Driver::Session

=head2 close()

I<Deprecated in version 0.14 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.02 as an experimental feature.>

 $session->close;  # no-op

All resources opened by this driver are closed automatically once
they are no longer required. Explicit calls to C<close()> are neither
required nor useful.

=head1 Neo4j::Driver::StatementResult

I<Deprecated in version 0.19 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.01.>

 $result = $session->run('...');
 warn 'Unexpected type'
   unless $result->isa('Neo4j::Driver::StatementResult');

With version 4 of the official Neo4j drivers, C<StatementResult>
was renamed C<Result>.

This driver deprecated any use of the
L<Neo4j::Driver::StatementResult> module name in version 0.19.
Use L<Neo4j::Driver::Result> instead.

=head1 Neo4j::Driver::Type::Path

=head2 path()

I<Deprecated in version 0.18 and to be removed in 1.00.
Originally added in 0.13 as an experimental feature.>

 $array = $path->path;
 $start_node = $array->[0];

Return the path as an array reference, alternating between nodes
and relationships in path sequence order.

The word C<path()> is singular, implying the return of a reference.
The alternative methods L<C<nodes()>|Neo4j::Types::Path/"nodes">
and L<C<relationships()>|Neo4j::Types::Path/"relationships"> are
plural, implying the return of a list. This was inconsistent.
Additionally, the C<path()> method led to awkward expressions such
as C<< $path->path >>, which are needlessly difficult to comprehend.

This experimental feature was added in version 0.13 and
deprecated in 0.18. It will be removed in 1.00.

Use L<C<elements()>|Neo4j::Types::Path/"elements"> instead.

 $array = [ $path->elements ];
